Let's start by asking a question, should the governing body and the brothers who are taking
the lead in our organization just mainly focus on spiritual matters and not be concerned
about financial matters?
Well, some may answer, yes, that's what they should be doing and perhaps these ones
may even feel a little embarrassed if money matters are mentioned at meetings or JW Broadcasting.
Perhaps they may feel that there's a precedent back in Acts chapter 6, where it speaks
about the days after Pentecost, where the daily food distribution was taking place.
We remember there, the apostles decided that they would delegate that work, the work
of giving food at the tables to a group of men and remember they said they would focus
then on the spiritual aspects, prayer and so on.
So is this the basis then for us to say that we should just focus on spiritual matters?
Well, even looking at that account, we realized that the apostles were very much involved
with the arrangement, weren't they?
They set the arrangement in place, they made sure the food distribution took place, even
though they personally didn't go to the tables and hand out the food.
But when we look at the scriptures, we see very clearly that although we have a spiritual
responsibility, a spiritual work that we need to do, but also there is a physical side
to the relief ministry and many other aspects that we need to be concerned about.
Let's take for example the Apostle Paul.
If you'd like to take your Bibles and turn with me to Galatians chapter 2, the time setting
is about the year 49 CE and Paul and Barnabas are in Jerusalem and here basically they
get the approval from the governing body to go out to the nations.
So let's look at Galatians chapter 2 and verses 9 and 10.
And when they recognized the underserved kindness that was given me, James and Cephas and
John, the ones who seemed to be pillars gave Barnabas and me the right hand of fellowship
or in other words they gave approval to them and support so that we should go to the nations,
but they to those who are circumcised.
So here the assignment was given, but then in verse 10 notice they asked only that we
keep the poor in mind.
Notice Paul says and this I have also earnestly endeavoured to do.
So obviously this relief ministry involving financial matters was something of concern
to Paul, to interest to him.
So when we think about that we see how the Apostle Paul did apply this admonition in his
ministry, his third missionary tour, which took place between the years 52 to 56 CE, were
involved with collecting contributions and donations from the brothers to take back
for the poor brothers in Judea who had a very hard time at that particular period of time.
Let's look at an example of what Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
1 Corinthians chapter 16 and verses 1 through 4.
Here he speaking to the Corinthians says, now concerning the collection for the holy
ones, you may follow the directions I gave to the congregations of Galatia.
On the first day of the every week each of you should set something aside according
to his own means, so the collections will not take place when I arrive.
But when I get there I will send the man you approve of in your letters to take your
kind gift to Jerusalem.
But now notice what Paul says in verse Paul, however if it seems advisable for me to go
there also, they will go there with me.
So Paul in the midst of his third missionary tour, which of course had a great spiritual
theme, helping people preaching the good news, he was still interested in the collection
of funds that would help the brothers back in Jerusalem.
And notice there in verse 4, he even raises the possibility of stopping his missionary
work and actually traveling back to Jerusalem.
Well that's exactly what happened.
If you turn across to Romans, Romans chapter 15, we'll see what eventuated.
Did it seem advisable for him to go back?
Well in Romans 15, 25 and 26, we're told, but now I'm about to travel to Jerusalem to
minister to the holy ones.
Now publications have made the points that this return to Jerusalem, the main purpose was
to take this money back to the brothers there in Judea.
And then he goes on to say, for those in Macedonia and Akeja have been pleased to share their
things by contribution to the poor among the holy ones in Jerusalem.
So was the financial aspect, the taking of contributions and donations important to
Paul?
Yes, he viewed it important enough to actually put on hold his missionary work and make
that journey back.
And when we look at the background there, we see that perhaps there were nine brothers
that traveled together and these brothers then took these funds, probably a substantial
amount back to Jerusalem.
And we have made the comment that this perhaps helped with the safety element, but also credibility
to make sure that nobody could question Paul with the funds that he was taking back.
And there's also included Titus, men who were trustworthy and well-known and approved
of by the brothers there in the various parts of Europe and Asia.
But were these gifts that they were taking just a matter of charity giving out freely
to others?
Well, let's look again in the scriptures this time to 2 Corinthians chapter 8, 2 Corinthians
chapter 8, and verses 13 through 15.
And this gives us a reason we could say for the policy or the viewpoint that the governing
body has with regard to helping others.
So 2 Corinthians 8, 13 through 15.
For I do not want to make it easy for others, but difficult for you.
But that by means of an equalizing, your surplus at the present time might offset their
need, so that their surplus might also offset your deficiency, that there may be an equalizing.
Just as it is written, the person with much did not have too much, and the person with
little did not have too little.
What's the principle here?
The principle is that even though these contributions were being given to poor brothers and sisters,
everyone had to do something.
It wasn't just a charity where you gave money to the poor, but rather there was an expectation
that each person, whether they were poor or they had more, would do something towards the
situation.
And that's exactly the view the governing body takes today.
Yes, Bibles and Bible literature provided free of charge without cost to our brothers
in all parts of the earth.
And the brothers then donate according to their means.
Kingdom halls are being built in many countries that can't afford to build kingdom halls.
And yet again, the governing body allows the opportunity for the brothers in those countries
to also donate toward the construction of kingdom halls.
Why?
Christen and we'll probably say, well, these are poor people, let's just make it a charity.
But you see, Jesus didn't stop the widow from putting the two coins in, did he?
He didn't say, look, hold on.
You need that, your poor.
Let the rich people put money in.
Now, Jesus allowed her to make that donation, why?
Because that was her gift to Jehovah and Jehovah would bless her for doing that.
So when we think about what's happening with regard to our organization, not only the
printing of Bibles, literature, building of kingdom halls, and also this huge disaster
relief that continues on, what can we be happy with?
We can be happy with the viewpoint of the governing body and we can be very happy that
the publishing committee of the governing body does look after our limited means.
Yes, they care for the money so that when the governing body makes decisions about what
needs to be done, they don't say there's no money for it.
Now they make sure that our limited funds are available for the important work to spiritually
feed people, but also help them in a physical sense too.